Define blip-0032, DNSSEC proof querying over onion messages (#32)
lightning/blips: blip-0032.md

```
bLIP: 32
Title: Onion Message DNS Resolution
Status: Active
Author: Matt Corallo <blmmesg@bluematt.me>
Created: 2024-02-10
License: CC0
```

## Abstract

This bLIP defines a simple protocol by which a node can request a DNSSEC proof of TXT records at a
given domain in the global DNS.

## Copyright

This bLIP is licensed under the CC0 license.

## Specification

Two new onion messages are defined, `dnssec_query` and `dnssec_proof`.

1. type: 65536 (`dnssec_query`)
2. data:
    * [`u8`:`domain_name_len`]
    * [`domain_name_len*byte`:`domain_name`]

1. type: 65538 (`dnssec_proof`)
2. data:
    * [`u8`:`domain_name_len`]
    * [`domain_name_len*byte`:`domain_name`]
    * [`u16`:`proof_len`]
    * [`proof_len*byte`:`proof`]

Nodes which accept and reply to `dnssec_query`-containing onion messages from any sender:

>  * SHOULD set the `dns_query` feature flag in their `node_announcement`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * SHOULD set the `dns_resolver` feature in their `node_announcement`.
```

```
bLIP: 32
Title: Onion Message DNS Resolution
Status: Active
Author: Matt Corallo <blmmesg@bluematt.me>
Created: 2024-02-10
License: CC0
```

## Abstract

This bLIP defines a simple protocol by which a node can request a DNSSEC proof of TXT records at a
given domain in the global DNS.

## Copyright

This bLIP is licensed under the CC0 license.

## Specification

Two new onion messages are defined, `dnssec_query` and `dnssec_proof`.

1. type: 65536 (`dnssec_query`)
2. data:
    * [`u8`:`domain_name_len`]
    * [`domain_name_len*byte`:`domain_name`]

1. type: 65538 (`dnssec_proof`)
2. data:
    * [`u8`:`domain_name_len`]
    * [`domain_name_len*byte`:`domain_name`]
    * [`u16`:`proof_len`]

>     * [`proof_len*byte`:`proof`]

Reviewer: So here we're only getting the DNSSEC proof, but why don't we also let our resolver return the TXT record (which could be an option that senders opt-into with a flag in the request)? This way senders may rely only on this mechanism instead of making the DNS query themselves.

It seems to me that we don't really need https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1136 in the BOLTs, and everything can be covered by this extension bLIP (so that everything is in just one place)?

Reviewer: > Basically you're suggesting allowing users to opt into trusting the resolver fully? We could, indeed, though I admit I'm not a particular fan of that, I'd kinda rather force folks using this protocol to actually validate the proof.

No, the client would still validate the DNSSEC proof, so the resolver couldn't return an invalid result. But right now the resolver only returns the proof, without the actual TXT record, which means the client needs to independently do the DNS lookup? Unless I misunderstood something about which data is exchanged exactly (does the proof in `dnssec_proof` contain the actual TXT record? I thought not).

Reviewer: > Oh, no, sorry, the proof would contain the actual end record as well (including the signature covering it).

Right, perfect then so it was just a misunderstanding on my side, because I haven't checked you code yet!

   accept SHA-1 DS records.
 * MUST validate the inception and expiration timestamps of all signatures in the proof.

## Discussion

When resolving DNS-based payment instructions, lightning payers wish to resolve DNS names to TXT
records (and associated DNSSEC proofs) in a private way. This bLIP defines a protocol by which
payers can do so utilizing lightning's built-in onion messages, avoiding introducing any
dependencies on native DNS resolution or directly-connected public DNS resolvers.

### Overall Lightning Name Resolution Protocol

The overall DNS-based lightning payment instruction resolution protocol is broken across three
separate documents as parts are relevant to different stakeholders. The protocol was originally
sketched in a mailing list post by Bastien at
<https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/lightning-dev/2023-November/004204.html>

First of all, the DNSSEC name resolution is defined in a BIP as it is generic across Bitcoin
payment instructions. A current draft may be found at
<https://github.com/TheBlueMatt/bips/blob/2024-02-dns-payment-instructions/bip-XXXX.mediawiki>.

> Secondly, this document describes a method of fetching DNSSEC proofs without existing the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Secondly, this document describes a method of fetching DNSSEC proofs without exiting the
```

To look up payment instructions given a `user`, `domain` pair, a payer sends their configured
resolver a `dnssec_query`-containing onion message with a `domain_name` of
`user`.user._bitcoin-payment.`domain`.

Upon receipt of the responding `dnssec_proof` the payer validates the `proof` against the DNSSEC
root trust anchor and if it passes parses any TXT records which
`user`.user._bitcoin-payment.`domain` resolves to as a `bitcoin:` URI.

From there, a lightning payer will search for (case-insensitive) `b12` or `omlookup` query
parameters in the resulting URI. If it finds a `b12` query parameter, its value should contain a
full offer, which the payer can simply pay.

If the payer identifies an `omlookup` query parameter in the resolved URI instead, it will send an
`offer_request`-containing onion message to the blinded path provided in the `omlookup` query
parameter value. Upon receiving the `offer_response`-containing onion message response, the payer
will have a BOLT12 offer which they can pay as normal.

#### Recipient Configuration

Recipient configuration is quite straightforward. For a recipient owning their own domain with a

> personal offer, they simply add a TXT record at `user`.user._bitcoin-payment.`domain` with the

Reviewer 2: @TheBlueMatt can you explain the configuration a little more here?  Is it correct to say that in this format:

`user`.user._bitcoin-payment.`domain`

I would need to make a new TXT record for every user within this particular `domain`?  It seems to break with the lightning address pattern that people are used to.

contents `bitcoin:?b12=OFFER`.

Alternatively, for recipients which do not wish to publish a unique offer for all possible payees,
a wildcard record may be provisioned as *.user._bitcoin-payment.`domain` with the contents

> `bitcoin:?omlookup=hex_encoded_blinded_path`. The node receiving onion messages at the given

Reviewer: We'll need to detail exactly what the `hex_encoded_blinded_path` contains. IMO it should be the same encoding as the Bolt 12 `offer_paths` TLV, without the tag and length (thus a [`...*blinded_path`:`paths`]).

Reviewer: That's a good point, it would just be a special kind of offer. That would get rid of the additional round-trip as well (but we'd need to think hard about what checks must then be done at the `invreq` level that are usually done at the `offer` level, having an implementation will help us figure out those details).

Reviewer 3: If a single static offer is used, then the `invoice` response would need to be signed by the same key (corresponding to `offer_node_id` regardless of `user`.
